{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red73\green17\blue135;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue120;\red163\green0\blue79;\red107\green0\blue109;\red135\green135\blue135;\red148\green108\blue71;
\red169\green0\blue15;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c36078\c14902\c60000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c54510;\cssrgb\c70588\c0\c38431;\cssrgb\c50196\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c60000\c60000\c60000;\cssrgb\c65098\c49804\c34902;
\cssrgb\c72941\c0\c6667;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15300\viewh16500\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Challenge 27: Print last lines 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 Difficulty: 
\f2\b0 Easy\uc0\u8232 Write a function that accepts a filename on disk, then prints its last 
\f1\i N 
\f2\i0 lines in reverse order, all 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 on a single line separated by commas. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf2 Sample input and output 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf2 Here is your test input file: 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf3 \cb4 Antony And Cleopatra\
Coriolanus\
Cymbeline\
Hamlet\
Julius Caesar\
King Lear\
Macbeth\
Othello\
Twelfth Night\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If asked to print the last 3 lines, your code should output \'93Twelfth Night, Othello, Macbeth\'94. \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If asked to print the last 100 lines, your code should output \'93Twelfth Night, Othello, Macbeth, King Lear, Julius Caesar, Hamlet, Cymbeline, Coriolanus, Antony and Cleopatra\'94. \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If asked to print the last 0 lines, your could should print nothing. \uc0\u8232 
\f0\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 Hints 
\f2\b0\fs32 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Hint #1: 
\f2\b0 Use the 
\f4\b \cf5 contentsOfFile 
\f2\b0 \cf2 initializer to pull in the text, then 
\f4\b \cf5 components(separatedBy:) 
\f2\b0 \cf2 to create an array of lines. \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Hint #2: 
\f2\b0 Arrays have a built-in 
\f4\b \cf5 reverse() 
\f2\b0 \cf2 method that flip them around in-place. \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Hint #3: 
\f2\b0 You need to print the last 
\f1\i N 
\f2\i0 lines, but of course you don\'92t want to read beyond the size of the array. Make sure you use the 
\f4\b \cf5 min() 
\f2\b0 \cf2 function to choose the lesser of the two. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf2 Solution 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf2 This is a nice and simple challenge, and is the kind of thing you\'92ll hit in real-world coding all the time. Hopefully, then, you found it a breeze: use 
\f4\b \cf5 contentsOfFile 
\f2\b0 \cf2 to get a multiline 
\f4\b \cf5 String 
\f2\b0 \cf2 of text, use 
\f4\b \cf5 components(separatedBy: "\\n") 
\f2\b0 \cf2 to split it into an array of lines, then reverse the array and loop over 
\f1\i N 
\f2\i0 items. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 In order to fully satisfy the challenge\'92s requirements \'96 and to add safety to make sure we don\'92t read outside the array! \'96 we also need to add a couple of 
\f4\b \cf5 guard 
\f2\b0 \cf2 statements to eliminate bad input, and use 
\f4\b \cf5 min() 
\f2\b0 \cf2 to pick the lowest number between the requested line count and the number of lines in the array. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Here\'92s the code: 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf6 \cb4 func \cf7 challenge27\cf8 (\cf2 filename\cf8 : \cf3 String\cf8 , \cf2 lineCount\cf8 : \cf3 Int\cf8 ) \{\
\cf6    guard let \cf2 input \cf9 = \cf6 try\cf9 ? \cf7 String\cf8 (\cf2 contentsOfFile\cf8 : \cf2 filename\cf8 ) \cf6 else\
\cf8 \{ \cf6 return \cf8 \}\
\cf6    var \cf2 lines \cf9 = \cf2 input\cf8 .\cf7 components\cf8 (\cf2 separatedBy\cf8 : \cf10 "\\n"\cf8 )\
\cf6    guard \cf2 lines\cf8 .\cf3 count \cf9 > \cf11 0 \cf6 else \cf8 \{ \cf6 return \cf8 \}\
\cf2    lines\cf8 .\cf7 reverse\cf8 ()\
\cf6    for \cf2 i \cf6 in \cf11 0 \cf8 ..\cf9 < \cf7 min\cf8 (\cf2 lines\cf8 .\cf3 count\cf8 , \cf2 lineCount\cf8 ) \{\
\cf7       print\cf8 (\cf2 lines\cf8 [\cf2 i\cf8 ])\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf8 \} \} 
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \
}